---
layout: post
title: Attending Medical School
---

It's been a while since I've written on here, but things have been a whirlwind. I did get more medical school interviews, but unfortunately, none turned into acceptances. I ended up being placed on multiple waitlists. I ended up getting off of a waitlist but ended up committing to my state school.

It's pretty crazy that this process yielded me one acceptance, but it seems understandable. I had the stats but probably lacked the story. With the mean matriculant age increasing every year (it's now hovering at 24), a 21-year-old direct out-of-college applicant probably doesn't have much in terms of an interesting life and/or unique experiences. I will write a post detailing my stats, but generally speaking, I had a cumulative GPA of 3.91 and a 99th percentile MCAT (barely made 99th percentile though). It is my impression that the medical field is bent on accepting students who seem to have dedicated a lot of their lives towards preparation for medicine (multiple gap years). I presume it demonstrates dedication.

My younger brother is currently in the process of applying to university, and I hope he chooses a combined BS/MD or BA/MD program, especially the condensed 6-year ones. These programs are a boon, for they take the stress and huge cost factor out of applying via the standard route. Moreover, the condensed ones are great, because regardless of the soft gap-year requirement medical schools are increasingly needing for matriculants, there is something to be said about completing your training while you are younger. You honestly have more energy, and the maturity factor can be acquired over lengthy training years. And for physicians in particular specialties, you want to maximize the time you can effectively practice before retiring.

I'm glad to have matriculated and hope to maybe even pursue an MPH. Medical school has probably been my biggest challenge, and to be completely honest, I'm struggling to get through it. There is a huge amount of material thrown at you at a very fast rate. I love all my classes, except anatomy, which I find to be plain old memorization. I will make a future post about the way I study and whether or not it worked.

I have also begun doing more research, which I love, and will probably post about it here. I managed to make Thursdays my dedicated research days. And thankfully, much of my work is computational, so I can relax and do it at home. I will also write some posts about how I manage to get through block one of my medical school's curriculum. 
